hey saster we have a terrific friend and
guest of ours today Allison wagenfeld
who is CMO of Google cloud and I've been
fortunate enough and we've been
fortunate enough to know her probably
since the beginning of saster she's been
a a leading technology executive for
many years when did you join Google
Allison I joined Google in May 2016 wow
it seems like yesterday but now that's a
long time in Cloud time I think Google
Cloud might you know it's funny I bet
Google Cloud was like a 30th the size it
is today given the compounding nature in
2016 don't you think it was pretty small
at the time when you look at these
charts it's like crazy yeah and before
that she was at emergence Capital which
invested in my last so really one of the
someone that has perspective on all
sides of startup Cloud SAS and scale so
thank you for joining us today it's
great to have you it's great to be here
with you Jason we definitely go back a
long way remember some of the early
saster events from the I don't know 2013
2014 so it's yeah long 10 years so I
want to have a little fun with that and
I and I want to spend a bunch of the
time we have with it uh talking about
real AI which I think is interesting but
but before we get there you're you've
got a huge portfolio which I'm curious
about your CMO of Google Cloud so what
does that mean what do you manage what
do you have your team doing and the
world's changing again right in a big
way for the first time since mobile so
what are your top priorities as CMO for
the next 12 to 15 months so as you
mentioned I joined here in 2016 to be
effectively the first CMO of Google
cloud and at the time we were small you
know less than a billion or one or two
billion of Revenue we just crossed over
a 30 billion Revenue run rate so it's
been wild growth experience and I think
now we're the fourth or fifth largest
Enterprise company in the world which is
kind of amazing when just having some
perspective on that so in terms of my
portfolio so I'm responsible for Google
workspace as well as Google Cloud
platform that we often refer to as
Google Cloud so those are really selling
all the way from smbs especially with
workspace lots of probably the
companies's listening hopefully our
workspace customers all the way through
yeah that's that's awesome we love it
that way all the way through to some of
the largest Enterprises in the world
using Google Cloud so in terms of
running the marketing team so we have a
lot of the classic functions of thinking
about brand marketing product marketing
partner marketing really large demand
gen team because that's certainly a big
part of everything that we do and then
Regional teams so the team is global so
North America Lam Europe Middle East and
Africa as well as Japan and Asia Pacific
so really Broad and then of course the
strategy and Ops Team to help sure that
everything is working which is
particularly important this time of year
because we're deep in planning and in
terms of how we think about our goals we
look at it generally in Five Pillars
that weer to as our priority pillars one
is around people and culture and
ensuring that we're really have the
right Talent on our team and that
everyone's growing second is what we
talk about is lifting mind share really
shifting perception in the market it's
no surprise that you know we've been um
number three but growing number three
player in the cloud growing Market
growing share growing growing share
growing revenues and so but shifting
perception is important than we think
about it in terms of driving demand for
our sales team like many of sastra
companies demand gen a really important
part of the equation and so we take
targets with our sales partners and then
fourth is around driving Revenue so what
we refer to a lot of is untouched
Revenue all of the marketing to get
people to our websites to be able to
procure whether doing trials for on the
Google Cloud side or whether doing
trials or growing for workspace so all
of those revenue and then our fifth
pillar is on efficiency and optimization
and how do we get better every year in
terms of reducing costs in terms of cost
per lead or just generally what does it
mean to become a more efficient skilled
operation so that's how we think about
it hey let me ask you I was I hadn't
thought about talking too much about
workplace but it's interesting to me
from a marketer's perspective how do you
think about the market because here's
what I see like I'm living in a very
Tech Centric you know I see I I can't
think of a single startup I work with
that works on the Microsoft back there
okay I'm not saying in the real world it
it it's true but I would think from a
goto Market marketing position and
product marketing messaging that might
be very different than how you try to
push Google Cloud where you have this
even more Dynamic Market how do you
think about the workplace versus Cloud
how do you think about the whole I maybe
I'm wrong in terms of market share but I
feel like there'd be very different
strategies yeah so for Google workspace
which some people think of was way back
when as Goog Google apps for work and
then we had a short stint as G suite and
then we ultim still like G Suite but
okay keep
going most people didn't know that the G
was for Google so when I see I see
invested in really expanding we put a
lot of investment in terms of building a
Google meet as well as all of the rest
of workspace we rebranded it and have
really expanded invested in it and so
that we compete with certainly Microsoft
in a big way with the bigger the company
the more we compete with Microsoft and
the smaller the company
last because it's so easy to just
procure and get up unusing I mean all of
like the web native capabilities of
workpace are so much better than what
people experience with Microsoft so
that's been a whole big part of our
marketing is focusing on that and the
biggest most interesting part is we
recently announced duet AI which is our
AI assistant built in to workspace so
hopefully you're using it if you're not
let's make sure that you start using it
it's been really a game Cher for
companies that are using it because it
works with your Corpus of material and
it knows what you're thinking about it
summarizes it suggests it's really
adding efficiency so marketing with do
at AI with workspace has been awesome
because it's a whole way to get into new
accounts and everything there gole
called platform very different set you
know also compete with Microsoft but AWS
has been certainly the biggest
competitor in that market for a while
what we're seeing now with everything
we're doing around generative I and
Google Cloud platform it's an
opportunity now to grab share from AWS
in particular we're seeing many more
startups now working with Google cloud
with access to our own models the llms
that we have with we have products like
vertex in a model Garden that people are
using in fact right now 70% of the Gen
startups are all using Google cloud of
the biggest gen unicorns so we're seeing
a real big shift to Google cloud in the
startup universe which is awesome and
why I should know that there's two
things I should know that I don't know
well there's a thousand things why is
that why is that 70% statistic true what
what is that what what what's the real
reason that that share is so high so
there's a couple things one is around
the infrastructure our infrastructures
really optimized for AI we build our own
chips we also work with Nvidia so really
strong AI optimized infrastructure
because we've been using AI Google for
well over a decade so we've been
optimizing this all along for our own
users for
use like you know photo Discovery or
YouTube Ai and ads everywhere so that's
one second is vertex is a really
powerful platform where you can discover
models and Google also has its own
models or you can use open source models
or other company models so we're set up
you don't have only one model to choose
from and we've built in all the security
and the controls and the technology to
be able to scale with that and then on
top of it we're also introducing doed AI
on the Google Cloud side to help you
with coding and the assistance and all
the things along those ways so the way
gen has just been built into the whole
stack top to bottom natively and that we
own and manage a lot of those pieces of
it has been really valuable so companies
from the very beginning when we announc
like companies like repid or anthropic
and everything are all working with
Google Cloud been really happy with it
and then that translates into lots more
startups
yeah and and related to that and I I
obviously you have your bias but in a
good way for this question why has AWS
lost share so they have not been
investing in AI in the same way that
Google has for such a long per that's a
beat you think that they've missed so I
think that given that so many of the
startups now and companies even scaling
companies like your whole world of sased
Jed is such an important part of the
growth trajectory of these companies
that you would want to work with the
companies that are strongest in geni and
that's where Google really shines and
companies tend to work less with
Microsoft they might be working with
open AI which obviously is you know
powerful and chat GPT really powerful as
well but that's less of a Microsoft
opportunity it's really more of an open
AI so if you're looking for a full stack
then it's valuable and then second is
we've put out a lot of really good
programs lately on learning and cohor
and we have credits AI startup credits
so we've been really out there quickly
in terms of the training and development
with Google Cloud which I think has
helped pull in a lot more to us so and
um also I just think in general Google
cloud is much more mature than it was a
couple of years ago and we've just cut
up in all of these areas and then
there's areas that we really shine and
how do you you talk a lot about AI
native companies right but as longterm
SAS folks you and I are also seeing
every single classic B2B
workflow company adding some sort of AI
to that which they need to power right
so from a market and marketing
perspective how you thinking about those
two different segments in terms of
attracting them and servicing them I
think in many ways that my job has never
been more interesting because we get to
Market AI but we also are users of it
ourselves and so rarely does that get to
interact and intersect so much so we've
seen it many different ways so one hand
functionally like so take a marketer
who's now using geni they're using it in
things like doit AI in workspace to help
write Define create images create briefs
create new campaigns everything like
that yeah and also as a marketer using
tools like vertex that allow us to
create a marketing studio so it trains
on all of our old creative what was the
most successful okay based on that
learning in connection with our models
let's show a new piece of creative let's
kind of now how will that perform or how
do we adapt that to make it more
successful going forward forward so we
have companies like carfor a big
retailer you know Supermarket retailer
in Europe that created an entire
marketing studio in six weeks using
vertex and so we've been using it
ourselves so there's functional needs
like sales you certainly seeing lots of
opportunities for writing kind of sales
emails everything like that and customer
support so lots there and then we're
seeing in different industry segments so
for retail for example of image
generation ads in retail being able to
have the conversational elements I mean
those aspects almost every company is
creating conversational interfaces with
their customers so they're either
building it themselves I'm worri there's
almost too many but I'm with you I'm
with you yes exactly and then the more
sophisticated companies are building
them themselves using products like
vertex because it's not that hard to
build a conversational interface with
your own data or there's a whole set of
new companies now that are being built
effectively on top of our technology
that are more Customs who take even in
the marketing function companies like
Jasper or now or typ phase are building
on top of Google cloud and then are
creating just a marketing interface for
people that might not have the
technology in house to build their own
but then they can have essentially
targeted companies like you know what
emergent always called the industry
Cloud companies or essentially the
functional Cloud companies so we're
seeing all of those in AI explode which
is super exciting so it's an interesting
case study I mean Jasper I mean we use
Jasper ourselves right what's what what
what what's the specific benefit they're
getting from from Google Cloud there
like what why did why did they
standardize there right I probably
people that listen or watch this will
try or be Jasper customers too yeah so
so Jasper uses vertex on Google cloud
and then accesses our large language
models and then trains with marketing
specific data and large language models
yes so that when customers want to
upload their own own campaign and modify
it using Jasper it's probably what
you're doing is modifying it or writing
blog posts or customizing social copy
they have these great language models to
suggest alternative what's best so that
works if you want to train on a broad
model for all marketing if you want to
just train for your company if you are a
large company that has a ton of your own
marketing elements then you might create
your own custom models working with the
same
but then you're training you have way
more training data in house you probably
don't have enough training data in house
that you would want nor the money or the
engineers probably to create your own
and so we see that playing out in many
different
Industries just I want to come back to
the topic we just talking about but out
of do you think as you think about this
do you think AI can replace
marketers no I don't think that I I me
nether AI can replace the parts of
marketing that people don't love doing
oring to do I'm willing to do like we
created this really cool asset called
the executive guide to ji and it has 10
steps pretty you know things this is
what you should do and this is how you
should measure your success that was
interesting we interviewed a whole bunch
of customers we interviewed a whole
bunch of sales exacts created this less
interesting to create the blog post the
web landing page the email elements the
BD the call scripts for the people
calling out so to be able to create a
really interesting asset all of that
research but then use AI to create all
these derivations of it that's a really
good use of AI but the AI wouldn't have
been able to create this entire asset
about these 10 different steps with all
I see but all the derivatives yeah so
it's basically the derivative elements
is a great use of AI the other ones are
like image generation I mean you could
call an agency and take you know photos
of your products in 20 different
locations so that your ads can be
relevant or you can use imagin to just
keep swapping out the backgrounds here's
this and snow here's this and on the
beach and like not a good use of time
and money to travel around the world
really good use of AI for sure to go
back just for a second to when we talked
about Jasper and others there one that I
I found interesting was you just
announced a big partnership to add in
some fashion AI enhance their platform
and that's probably the type of thing
almost anyone watching or listening this
is thinking about or learning from so
what do they what what do you guys do
together and and what's what's behind
that
announcement yeah so the announcement we
made yesterday was with Spotify they um
are working with Google Cloud to improve
the searchability of Auto to be able to
go so that any user can try to create
custom audio for their podcast for
example and they are basically looking
at Ai and all of the different ways from
everything from marketing for themselves
but a lot for their user experience to
be able to improve searchability is one
of their biggest use cases I mean that's
always the biggest challenge for not the
their biggest challenge but a challenge
is for people to find what they're
looking for whether it's on a website or
in an app and being able to use language
models to predict what someone's looking
for suggest it to them and then maybe
even suggest other opportunities is a
great use of G of AI yeah for sure I
mean search is one of the existential
challenges of the internet right I mean
going to the rest of Google and Spotify
is interesting because if you think of a
company that has been using some form of
AI since day one yeah right it's it's
that this is the differentiation right
okay well there's a bunch of stuff we
could talk about but I don't want to run
out of time this is what's new at what
are some key things coming up with
Google clouder that you're working on
that you think would be most important
to resonant with theaster community yeah
so well we talked about do we've talked
about vertex I think the sasra community
would love some of the new training
programs that we have put out there so
last June we announced a cohort training
program for AI startups across Google
and Google Cloud we're doing another
program starting in January so if people
go to cloud.google.com startups you can
basically cloud.google.com startups and
it's live or it's or it's recorded how
do the cohorts work so there's a new
coor that's starting on January 16th
running through February 22nd and it's
like a huge AI learning program so I
think you could put type just type in
Google Cloud startups and you'll be able
to find that we also have credits so we
give up to
$350,000 of credits to AI startups so
that's another area that uh companies
your listeners should be looking for and
applying for those different types of
credits so highly recommend and as part
of that program you also get access to
some of our Engineers to make sure that
you're setting everything up properly so
there's one-on-one Consulting so that's
also been really powerful for companies
to be able to just get a really fast
start and understand what they can do
with Google Cloud AI so that would be
another third is we just announced our
Cloud next event in Vegas yeah moving to
Vegas Vegas we'll chat about that we'll
share some learnings okay good Vegas
when it's in April or something like
that April 9th through 11th okay Vegas
we are doubling the size this year and
lots of opportunities for developers we
had this startup Lounge last year for
those of yes who went which was wildly
successful so we're making that much
bigger and increasing
certifications everything I just
actually saw a news article this morning
that the cloud certifications Cloud
certified developers are the highest
paid developers from certifi um after
certification so we're going to make
make sure that we really increase the
training and development of Google Cloud
Engineers which will make it easier to
hire and everything like that for all of
your listeners um but so coming to Cloud
next in April sign up now we actually
have some early bird promotions that we
just announced in terms of getting
tickets cheaper let's do that yes always
get the early bird tickets yes always we
we we'll do we'll try to do a saster
dinner or something around it to for
folks folks that are there oh great
that's cool yes that's Vegas so those
are the things that I would say is just
get involved right now and then um I
guess the last thing I would say is we
have a Marketplace within Google Cloud
where we've really and um grown over the
last couple of years so for that your
companies that are running on Google
Cloud yeah hopefully many if they want
to list their companies on our
Marketplace that other customers can
find and discover and grow from those
and so we find those to be really
successful well let's maybe let's end
there because it's an that's an
interesting topic what are the if if you
do want to part if you are running on on
the plat and you want to partner more
and there's a
Marketplace what are the hacks or what's
the way to to be a great partner how do
you be a great partner um so if you
basically offer something exceptional
using Google Cloud technology we will
promote you so if you're doing something
Innovative or different or if you're
running at a really large scale or if
you want to show up at a place like
Cloud next you actually can sign up to
be a sponsoring partner at Cloud next
and actually have your own space and
your own booth and then we will come
film you and promote you and basically
help draw attention to what you're
offering so we definitely lean in with
the you know many companies are
multicloud but the ones that really
choose to do Innovative work with Google
Cloud we will lean in and promote and
you know companies like typface we
created a whole video about them and
we'll help push that out so typ faces I
mean I mean they're all startups but
it's up here is there an example of
someone that that that that you know of
that maybe has a little bit less brand
Equity or maybe they don't that's broken
out leveraging leveraging you guys as a
platform the marketplace and others so I
a whole bunch of companies that we've
highlighted I don't know too much that
you would know these and these are all
around the world yes connected stories
coover Elemental cognition 11 Labs
Fiddler fireworks. a promptly cor cor's
been around for a while SMA AI
synthesized writer so these are all
different companies that have developed
with us and then we will put them in our
blogs for example and then we will
promote so we companies that sign up for
these training programs and these
cohorts that's where we tend to learn a
lot about a lot of the newer companies
and then we I see so that is valuable
for top of funnel relationship building
too right yes exactly so reason to do it
right yeah get money you build you scale
and we help promote you so it works well
for everybody yeah cool that's a great
Insight all right Alison this was so
great is there anything else that we we
missed from the whole Google Cloud
Empire we should chat about today or did
we hit it all I think we hit it all
hopefully everybody signs up starts
using the technology definitely sign up
for do AI with workspace now if you're
already a user you can actually just in
the console upgrade to do do AI get your
$350,000 of free of free credits right
and next in April in Las Vegas Yes and
share your stories with us so that we
can help promote them and help promote
the companies that are working on Google
Cloud cool thanks for all the time
Alison great great to talk with you
Jason